Good morning, Tansi.
My name is Colin Oakes.
I'm from the Nekaneet First Nation, Southwest Saskatchewan.
I'm a manager of operations at Okimaw Ohci Healing Lodge, Prairie Region, Correctional Service Canada.
I've been here since about 13 years and I started out here in a different capacity.
But now I'm, now I do the work I do.
I feel very fortunate to work on our Nekaneet First Nation.
This is where the Okimaw Onci Healing Lodge is located at.
I'm driving, going home, going to work under 4 minutes is so great.
We have a fair amount of First Nations staff on site.
We have a fair amount also from the Nekaneet, First Nation.
That's pretty ideal not only for them, but their relatives that we have other First Nations people that come here.
The, I think the commute for them is approximately 20 minutes, 30 minutes.
The thing that I enjoy about being First Nations and working here is
the fact that this is in line with what we do at Okimaw Ohci Healing Lodge.
When this place was built and completed in 1995, the intent back then
was to have an equal amount of correctional cultural story interventions or ways of dealing with our federal female offenders,
and also a partnership with what would be called law and policy.
And there was a good there was good intent there.
And I think it's a challenge every day, I guess, when you have that partnership.
We had a good, strong group of Elders that used to work here back then.
Many of those Elders are no longer around now, unfortunately, but we have another group of Elders that work with the women also.
I enjoyed the part about this job as I do a fair amount of departmental or CSC interactions, meetings, videoconferences.
But there are times I can pretty much step outside my office door and speak with the offenders that are walking by.
I'll say good morning.
When this place was opened back in 1995, many of the Elders that worked here,
there was probably no how to work with the federally sentenced female offenders back then.
So the intent that they had back then was to treat them like relatives, like they were their granddaughters or grandnieces or something.
They treated them like family but they also had expectations.
And in a way, they're able to probably, I guess their interactions were very culturally based, I guess.
You know, they're basically, you know, raising grandchildren, also helping raise grandchildren.
So that was the idea they took back then.
And that was like, as I said, 1995, now that we're in 2022,
there's still a few of us that are from Nekaneet that we still have that mindset.
I always tell them that you're they're part of the community, they're part of our extended family.
So I think in that way, there's that good expectation that you have of them.
There are also moments that you probably have those discussions with them that you have to,
for the lack of a better term, set them right.
And sometimes those types of discussions probably aren't too great for them, but they understand.
I'm also of the understanding that when the women come here, they're here to work on themselves.
Like if you ever been out here, ever seeing pictures, where we're pretty much in the middle of nowhere.
There's nothing nearby to distract them, like, you know, a car lot, a block away or anything like that.
They're here to work on themselves.
And that way they do all the work on themselves.
They do the work where we just kind of point them in the direction, the various departments, the Operations Department,
the Programs Department, the Assessment and Interventions Department,
they pretty much try to point in their direction and all of them do the work themselves.
And when they leave, there's sometimes we do get contacted by women who've,
you know, gone past what is called a warrant expiry date.
And they'll call us here just to say they're doing good.
They're keeping some of the things that they kept from here at Okimah Ohci Healing Lodge
sometimes they even go so far to specifically name an Elder or
they'll name one of the staff to say thank you so and so for telling me those words.
They make so much sense right now that, you know, they're glad they had this opportunity.
So, yeah, that's it's kind of one of the main reasons why Okimaw Ohci
had chosen Nekaneet and I guess was our cultural way of life here.
I again feel fortunate to grow up in this manner.
So it's and at that earlier generation, you know, raised the younger generation.
They kept us doing a lot of the cultural events.
And that's something that we do now.
I'm kind of at the age where I'm kind of one of the guys that sit around and kind of watch
and make sure the younger group are doing the right things.
And, but that's just how it goes.
So, it's up to us to, I guess to keep that cultural interventions, cultural interaction going.
I feel fortunate and feel very lucky to be doing this on a regular basis.
And yeah, there may have been one or two times that somebody phoned here to say thank you to call.
And so, that's all I have to say.
I, do want to add that I watched the other videos.
I thank you for your sharing that that's a lot to do and that's a good thing.
So thank you very much, Hiy Hiy.